So the last week we had a look at the environment variables really useful tool to centralize certain
settings and even inject them from our node environment the next setting is to generate setting dissolves
something you can use to change the way next statically generates pages if you choose to do so.
Now I will dive deeper into this later in the course and the deployment module when I talk about static
page generation.
This is superpowerful useful and great feature and definitely something we will dive into.
But I want to spend more words on that than just some quick sentences.
So let's omit this for now.
We also got a rude dear property.
This can be used to set the root directory where all your next folders live in.
And by default this is simply just slash.
However if you would create a sub directory my app and all your next files and download modules folder
that's important would be in that folder in the map folder then you would set Roueche dear to my app
you're to inform next where to look for its files and dependencies.
You also have a router property.
Now the router property allows you to override some settings of the next router as you learned you never
directly configured a router.
It's using the router behind the scenes but you don't interact with it you just create your pages and
next and first the route configuration from that.
Now if you need to configure some things about The View router you can do it here.
Now since the router is used you can set any of the settings you can set on the router constructor so
you can always check out the official view router docks and there if you scroll to the bottom to the
API reference to the router constructor options these options here can also be set on this router object
here that are things like for example setting the base path in case you are serving your app from a
subfolder in production then you could set this to my app.
This is no not referring to the full structure here but to your web server folder structure and in which
subfolder your app might lie if it's not served from the root and so on.
So you can really set the entire configuration you saw in the docs I pointed you to here.
You can also set Obert settings like for example extend routes.
Now extend routes allows you to programmatically add your own routes.
It's actually a function which receives the routes Naks generated for you based on your pages folder.
And the second is a resolve function which allows you to find your component files and then you could
use the existing routes and push a new route where a new route is just a javascript object following
the route configuration of the view router.
So here you could set up a POV for example a catch all Poth and then you could define which component
should be loaded.
And here you can use resolve to pass Durnan which is a reserved variable.
Available in node environments referring to that directory you're currently in.
And then the payoff to the component you want to load like pages indexed view.
Now we would always load our main page ever while getting into any route that we don't set up here in
our pages folder.
So essentially in this set up we will never get 404 errors again.
This can be really useful in some advanced use cases but a lot of the time you should need to extend
your routes like this.
You should try to really build your routing structure with the pages folder and take advantage of that
core feature next offers you.
You can also use the router config to set the default act of class with Link active class.
Here you could set this to active for example to attached is active C S S class to any active link and
more.
You can set more here and we will dive into some of the features later in the course like middleware.
You can also find a detailed instruction about all the possible settings in the last lecture off this
module there in general.
As you probably already guessed you'll find a lot of resources about the configurations you can apply.